Let's add lazy loading to our recipe book application if we have a look at our app market will we see
that we basically have three feature areas D or feature a shopping list feature and the recipes feature.
Now we probably are going to visit the off feature because we have to log in to access many of the features
of our apps we always visit recipes feature.
Because right now we always redirect to slash recipes.
If we just load the page so that's guaranteed right now.
But we might not always visit the shopping list area.
Now I want to add a new component to our application to also make the visit of the recipe's area optional
because that's the area with the most code in our application.
So I want to use energy command DCL I command GC to generate a new component and I will simply name
it home and I will add spec files so that this is well enough cred with a testing file.
So we get the whole component here now and here in the template.
I simply want to say welcome to the recipe book.
So that would be our starting page for the app so that we don't have to redirect to the recipe module
to the rescue component.
I should say all the time that with that added It was added to the app module declarations aere already
so that's fine.
Now let's go to the app routing module and change that first route.
Here I will no longer redirect but now I want to load the home component and therefore of course have
to add the import pointing to that home component file and the home folder with that.
What that means for our application if we rerun it is that if we were at the root page we're not redirected
recipes but we only see the home page and now we can choose if we want to go to recipes or to the shopping
list or register or log in.
That means that now we might not always go to the recipe's area.
And since this holds to most code of our application I want to start implementing lazy loading with
this Marchal how can we load this module.
Lately though the issue is right now we always loaded eagerly because we imported here in the AB module.
That means at the point of time our application launches.
Keep in mind it is brute strength with the AB module.
Everything listed here in imports is imported.
That is why right now we have no performance differences.
If we create multiple feature modules because in the end those started together anyways.
Now we don't want to lotas eagerly anymore so we somehow need to remove it from this imports array here
and then we also need to remove the imports statement Soledad.
Well Peg doesn't add this recipe's module to our initial bundle anymore since wet bag and that's just
a side note.
What happens on the technical side of this.
Since we're Pech doesn't add this to our bundle anymore.
It also means everything we reference here Indie's import statements isn't added to our panel anymore.
While these imports from the angler package probably are added because we do reference to an average
Macho's too.
But all that stuff here recipe's components and so on that shouldn't be added anymore.
So we now we load a lot less code.
But on the other hand let me ask of Khama on the other hand we also break our app which is maybe not
a good tradeoff because if we let the app recompile and reload while you see we get an error or basically
that recipe route isn't recognized anymore which makes sense because it was registered in the recipe
routing module which we don't load anymore work load this module but we don't load recipes Marchal.
So we should fix this.
And we want to load it.
Lazy.
Now we can load it easily by going to the app routing file and here we reintroduce a route we had there
before.
It points to recipes but now we no longer load the recipes component here.
So don't do dis don't load the recipes component here.
That would again loaded eagerly.
Instead here we use a number property and that is called Load dieldrin now load children takes a string
and that's important.
A string not a type for component we always passed a type like home component shopping list component
and that meant we had to import the import statement where we had to add import statement.
Now if we add this it's explained how web page works.
It would still include it in our initial bundle then we would have no longer the lazy loading effect.
So we have to put a string here and point to the module.
We want to load dynamically lazy only at the point of time we visit this route.
So here that's a relative path starting with dot slash.
We go to these slash recipe's folder.
Because from the app routing module files scene we have to go down to the recipe's folder and then to
the recipe module file without Dadds.
Ts just the filename recipe dot module.
And here we now also have to specify the name of the class in this file because technically you could
name does anything you want.
So hello world module if you if you like you could name it like this.
It's not connected to the file name.
So we have to specify the class name in this file by adding a hash to separate the pop from the class
name and then the class name recipe's module.
With this in place now whenever we visit slash recipe it will dynamically load the recipes module but
only once we entered this into our u r l That means we have to make a tiny change to the recipe's routing.
Here we also have a slash recipe's route and that will not work anymore because we already have added
recipe's back to the AB routing module here.
We should simply make this an empty path because we want to load this and slash recipes.
And keep in mind the whole recipe's module is loaded once who is slash recipes.
And I just realized that I got a compilation error here.
Datchet recipes Marchal because the filename of course is recipes Marchal And of course also the path
here should be recipes.
So in the app routing module makes sure to make the pop recipes and that your recipes to these two typos
I had there.
And one other thing I unfortunately mistyped here.
You could name it recipe modules here but that would of course be the recipes module.
So with that we should now be able to compile this application and then hopefully have a working of
lazy loading feature.
So for now go back to the running application and Lotus does all seems to work fine.
The interesting part happens if you go to the network to help make sure that this able caching here
is checked.
And now if I reload the page you'll see all the files are loaded initially.
But if I go to recipes now you see that at the bottom this chunk here was added dynamically.
Let me show it again as we look at the page and you see back and tachi as is the last file which was
loaded at the bottom.
If I click recipes you actually see that chunk and so on was added to.
And that said lazy loading this Shonka for code was only loaded at the point of time we need it and
with as being loaded dynamically Leyzaola Now we make sure that this code is never loaded.
If we don't use this feature.
And now of course you could also add lazy loading for the shopping list module and off Marshall.
I won't do it.
But certainly a nice challenge if you want to do it.
Go ahead and try loading these modules while lazy loading too.
I want to have a look at now what actually happens if we were to provide services anywhere else than
an hour AB module which right now is the only place where we provide them when it comes to providing
them in modules.